README.md, before:

# Welcome to the TraceView OpenShift Cartridge

![TraceView](https://s3.amazonaws.com/pglombardo/traceview-logo.png)
![OpenShift](https://s3.amazonaws.com/pglombardo/openshift-online-logo.png)

This is a downloadable [TraceView](http://www.appneta.com/products/traceview/) cartridge for 
Application Performance Monitoring on [OpenShift](https://www.openshift.com/).

![pretty-trace-1million-and-1](https://s3.amazonaws.com/pglombardo/pretty-trace-1million-and-2.png)

This downloadable cartridge installs the base TraceView libraries required to
properly instrument your OpenShift application.

_This is currently a work in progress.  Currently, you can fully instrument your
Ruby applications on OpenShift by using a combination of this cartridge and the TraceView
[oboe gem](https://github.com/appneta/oboe-ruby).  Other language variations coming
soon._

# Installation

## Specifying your TraceView Access Key

It's required that before installation of the cartridge, that you add your _TraceView Access Key_ to your OpenShift application.

Make sure you have a [TraceView](http://www.appneta.com/products/traceview/) account already setup.  If not, you can quickly sign up for a [free tracing account](http://www.appneta.com/products/traceview-free-account/).

Once you have your TraceView account, you can retrieve your Access Key on your [dashboard](https://login.tv.appneta.com/account/details).

Add your Access Key to your OpenShift Application by setting an environment variable with the `rhc set-env` command as follows:

    rhc set-env TRACEVIEW_ACCESS_KEY=Your_Access_Key -a Your_App_Name

_Make sure to replace Your_Access_Key and Your_App_Name with the appropriate values._

Once this is done, you can add the downloadable cartridge to your OpenShift application via [web browser](#web-browser) or [command line](#command-line).

## Web Browser

On your OpenShift application page, click on the link _...see the entire list of cartridges you can add_
at the bottom of the page.  This brings you to a list of installable cartridges.  At the bottom
of the page, you will see an area to _Install your own catridge_ as follows:

![Install your own cartridge](https://s3.amazonaws.com/pglombardo/openshift-install-your-own.png)

Insert the URL of the raw catridge manifest file on Github and click Next:

    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/appneta/openshift-cartridge-traceview/master/metadata/manifest.yml

From there, you will be taken to a confirmation page.  Click _Add Cartridge_ to confirm the installation.

## Command Line

To install the catridge using the `rhc` command via the command-line, run the following:

    rhc cartridge-add https://raw.githubusercontent.com/appneta/openshift-cartridge-traceview/master/metadata/manifest.yml -a My_App_Name

Make sure to replace _My_App_Name_ with the actual OpenShift application name.

If at anytime you wish to remove the cartridge, it can be done with:

    rhc cartridge-remove traceview -a My_App_Name

# Summary

Congratulations, the TraceView cartridge for OpenShift should now be installed.  If, by chance you received any errors
or warnings during this process please let us know by contacting us through our [support portal](https://support.tv.appneta.com/) or on IRC @ #appneta on [Freenode](http://freenode.net/).  We appreciate all feedback!

# Ruby

Once the cartridge has been installed, you can instrument your Ruby applications by simply adding the [oboe gem](https://github.com/appneta/oboe-ruby) to your application as detailed in the oboe-ruby [README](https://github.com/appneta/oboe-ruby/blob/master/README.md).

Note:  Make sure that you install the Ruby gem after you add the TraceView cartridge to your application.  If you
fail to do this in this order, the gem will fail to build the bundled c-extension.  In this case, a `gem pristine oboe`
will force the gem to search for a re-link to the TraceView libraries.

# Java

As the java agent is included in the cartridge installation, you can configure your webapp server to start using the java agent to gather data. 

You will need to create a pre-action hook for your webapp to use our java agent:

Under your application GitHub directory, navigate to .openshift/action_hooks

Create a new file with name "pre_start_<webapp cartridge>". For example jbossas-7 would be "pre_start_jbossas-7", jbossews-1.0 (tomcat 6) would be "pre_start_jbossews-1.0"

Edit the file, insert line as below
```
export _JAVA_OPTIONS="-javaagent:$OPENSHIFT_TRACEVIEW_DIR/tracelyticsagent.jar"
```

Commit and push your changes to Git. The application should restart automatically with our java agent enabled

Commit message:

[openshift] Added pre_restart hook file instruction for joboe

README.md, after:

# Welcome to the TraceView OpenShift Cartridge

![TraceView](https://s3.amazonaws.com/pglombardo/traceview-logo.png)
![OpenShift](https://s3.amazonaws.com/pglombardo/openshift-online-logo.png)

This is a downloadable [TraceView](http://www.appneta.com/products/traceview/) cartridge for 
Application Performance Monitoring on [OpenShift](https://www.openshift.com/).

![pretty-trace-1million-and-1](https://s3.amazonaws.com/pglombardo/pretty-trace-1million-and-2.png)

This downloadable cartridge installs the base TraceView libraries required to
properly instrument your OpenShift application.

_This is currently a work in progress.  Currently, you can fully instrument your
Ruby applications on OpenShift by using a combination of this cartridge and the TraceView
[oboe gem](https://github.com/appneta/oboe-ruby).  Other language variations coming
soon._

# Installation

## Specifying your TraceView Access Key

It's required that before installation of the cartridge, that you add your _TraceView Access Key_ to your OpenShift application.

Make sure you have a [TraceView](http://www.appneta.com/products/traceview/) account already setup.  If not, you can quickly sign up for a [free tracing account](http://www.appneta.com/products/traceview-free-account/).

Once you have your TraceView account, you can retrieve your Access Key on your [dashboard](https://login.tv.appneta.com/account/details).

Add your Access Key to your OpenShift Application by setting an environment variable with the `rhc set-env` command as follows:

    rhc set-env TRACEVIEW_ACCESS_KEY=Your_Access_Key -a Your_App_Name

_Make sure to replace Your_Access_Key and Your_App_Name with the appropriate values._

Once this is done, you can add the downloadable cartridge to your OpenShift application via [web browser](#web-browser) or [command line](#command-line).

## Web Browser

On your OpenShift application page, click on the link _...see the entire list of cartridges you can add_
at the bottom of the page.  This brings you to a list of installable cartridges.  At the bottom
of the page, you will see an area to _Install your own catridge_ as follows:

![Install your own cartridge](https://s3.amazonaws.com/pglombardo/openshift-install-your-own.png)

Insert the URL of the raw catridge manifest file on Github and click Next:

    https://raw.githubusercontent.com/appneta/openshift-cartridge-traceview/master/metadata/manifest.yml

From there, you will be taken to a confirmation page.  Click _Add Cartridge_ to confirm the installation.

## Command Line

To install the catridge using the `rhc` command via the command-line, run the following:

    rhc cartridge-add https://raw.githubusercontent.com/appneta/openshift-cartridge-traceview/master/metadata/manifest.yml -a My_App_Name

Make sure to replace _My_App_Name_ with the actual OpenShift application name.

If at anytime you wish to remove the cartridge, it can be done with:

    rhc cartridge-remove traceview -a My_App_Name

# Summary

Congratulations, the TraceView cartridge for OpenShift should now be installed.  If, by chance you received any errors
or warnings during this process please let us know by contacting us through our [support portal](https://support.tv.appneta.com/) or on IRC @ #appneta on [Freenode](http://freenode.net/).  We appreciate all feedback!

# Ruby

Once the cartridge has been installed, you can instrument your Ruby applications by simply adding the [oboe gem](https://github.com/appneta/oboe-ruby) to your application as detailed in the oboe-ruby [README](https://github.com/appneta/oboe-ruby/blob/master/README.md).

Note:  Make sure that you install the Ruby gem after you add the TraceView cartridge to your application.  If you
fail to do this in this order, the gem will fail to build the bundled c-extension.  In this case, a `gem pristine oboe`
will force the gem to search for a re-link to the TraceView libraries.

# Java

As the java agent is included in the cartridge installation, you can configure your webapp server to start using the java agent to gather data. 

You will need to create a pre-action hook for your webapp to use our java agent:

Under your application GitHub directory, navigate to .openshift/action_hooks

Create a new 2 hook files with name "pre_start_<webapp cartridge>" and "pre_restart_<webapp cartridge>". For example jbossas-7 would be "pre_start_jbossas-7" and "pre_restart_jbossas-7", jbossews-1.0 (tomcat 6) would be "pre_start_jbossews-1.0" and "pre_restart_jbossews-1.0"

Edit the both files, insert the same line as below
```
export _JAVA_OPTIONS="-javaagent:$OPENSHIFT_TRACEVIEW_DIR/tracelyticsagent.jar"
```

Commit and push your changes to Git. The application should restart automatically with our java agent enabled
